    Injection
    Broken Authentication
    Sensitive Data Exposure
    XML External Entity
    Broken Access Control
    Security Misconfiguration
    Cross-site Scripting
    Insecure Deserialization
    Components with Known Vulnerabilities
    Insufficent Logging & Monitoring
    
    SQL Injection: This occurs when user controlled input is passed to SQL queries. As a result, an attacker can pass in SQL queries to manipulate the outcome of such queries. 
    Command Injection: This occurs when user input is passed to system commands. As a result, an attacker is able to execute arbitrary system commands on application servers.
    
    Broken Authentication
    
    Brute force attacks: If a web application uses usernames and passwords, an attacker is able to launch brute force attacks that allow them to guess the username and passwords using multiple authentication attempts. 
    Use of weak credentials: web applications should set strong password policies. If applications allow users to set passwords such as ‘password1’ or common passwords, then an attacker is able to easily guess them and access user accounts. They can do this without brute forcing and without multiple attempts.
    Weak Session Cookies: Session cookies are how the server keeps track of users. If session cookies contain predictable values, an attacker can set their own session cookies and access users’ accounts. 
    
There can be various mitigation for broken authentication mechanisms depending on the exact flaw:

    To avoid password guessing attacks, ensure the application enforces a strong password policy. 
    To avoid brute force attacks, ensure that the application enforces an automatic lockout after a certain number of attempts. This would prevent an attacker from launching more brute force attacks.
    Implement Multi Factor Authentication - If a user has multiple methods of authentication, for example, using username and passwords and receiving a code on their mobile device, then it would be difficult for an attacker to get access to both credentials to get access to their account.
